'Next' and 'The Island'
=======================

:date: 2007-06-04



*Next*, an entertaining spectacle of the highest production standards.
It's really well-made and got good acting from all participants,
especially Julianne Moore and Tory Kittles, the lead detective and her
sidekick. I just wish `Thomas Kretschmann`_ wasn't there. He's just not
interesting. At least not here.

There's great but brief visual effects, great cinematography, and
production design. And there's also the most romantic moment in movie
memory ("definition of beauty" scene which nearly soaked me in tears)
and the most painful moment so far this year ("explosive execution"
scene which nearly soaked me in tears, too). Such powerful emotions are
rare as are such movies, reminding me of the spectacular *The Island*
(compelling, "never-before-told" storyline, superb action and visuals,
superb camerawork, beloved romantic interest, fearsome villains, ...).

I should not neglect to credit Nicolas Cage for leading the entire cast
without a flaw, and it's amazing that he still manages to maintain his
star after all these years. Also, in comparison with *The Island*, he
gives a more interesting character than Ewan McGregor's.

I should also not neglect crediting *The Island* as a superior movie
for:

-  it got a better story (*Next*'s nuclear bomb story is overkill, and
   the villains' acts are left unjustified)
-  it's a greater spectacle (nothing in *Next* beats its chase sequence,
   though the falling debris comes close).

One last note is that *Next* seems to have been inspired by David
Fincher's *Se7en* (Fincher's sort of beautiful, dark and brownish
camerawork, and the scene in which cars are coming from underground
parking, short in a hectic pace as in to signify the urgency of their
mission, and the upward-moving end-credits).

.. _Thomas Kretschmann: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thomas_Kretschmann
