+++
title = "2008 movie review"
date = 2015-06-20

[taxonomies]
tags = ['year-movie-review']
+++

movie of the year
=================

[Cloverfield] is the year\'s greatest spectacle, with the inventive
style popularised by *The Blair Witch Project*, and sweetened with the
year\'s best visual effects and superb sound. An honorable mention goes
to [Taken] while the most innovative concept is the unique time-travel
story of [The Lake House].

best movie
==========

[Children of Men] easily takes this one.

direction
=========

Nothing was done better than [Children of Men], followed by [No Country
for Old Men].

misc elements
=============

Best comedy is *Knocked Up*, and nothing was quite as enchanting as the
feel-good socio-political [Hairspray]. The runner-up is the formulaic,
yet effective, *Robots*.

Nothing made me cry in my history of movie-watching as did the drama,
[Kinsey], and there wasn\'t a movie as bizarre as [Persona], while the
year\'s best dialogue can be found in [The Squid & the Whale].

As for production design, nothing beat [No Country for Old Men], while
*TMNT* is a runner-up, animated as it is. *No Country for Old Men* also
got the year\'s best sound, followed by a tie between [30 Days of Night]
and [Cloverfield]. [The New World]\'s editing is the year\'s most
accomplished.

The best dancing can be found in [Step Up 2: The Streets], there\'s no
better action-thriller than [Taken] (followed by [Shooter]), while no
horror is better than the chilling [Vacancy]. The best action is found
in [Final Fantasy VII - Advent Children], followed by [Kung Fu Panda].
The best fight is between the characters played by Jet Li and Jacky Chan
in the otherwise shitty and silly [The Forbidden Kingdom].

misc small things
=================

The year\'s best escape was the villain\'s in *Kung Fu Panda*, followed
by that from the \'safe house\' in [Children of Men], which also happens
to have the best battle scene. The best confrontation was that of the
characters of Craig Bierko and Russel Crowe in a party scene in *The
Cinderella Man*. The best end-credits sequence can be seen in *The
Mummy*, which uses a concept copied from *300*\'s end-credits sequence.

*The Condemned* had my favorite sexual interaction (very brief but
complete with beautiful comic touches) and I don\'t remember a car crash
in movie history as great as that in *Death Proof*.

performances
============

The year\'s performance is easily Heath Ledger\'s in [The Dark Knight],
and he happens to be the movie\'s sole redeemer, almost. Other
outstanding male performers are Josh Brolin in [Planet Terror], Cuba
Gooding, Jr.\'s as dirty cop in *Dirty*, John Carrol Lynch\'s bit
appearance in [Confidence], and then Stanley Tucci\'s fashion lover in
*The Devil Wears Prada*. My favorite comic performance is William H.
Macy\'s in *Wild Hogs*.

The best female performance was by Cate Blanchett\'s title character as
a daring journalist in *Veronica Guerin*, followed by the surprisingly
excellent Kerry Washington as a slutty girl in *I Think I Love My Wife*.
Ger Ryan (2nd runner-up) really touched me as a loving mother in
*interMission* followed by Ellen Barkin (3rd runner-up) in *Someone Like
You*. That Ger Ryan also ties with Ellen Page\'s appearance in the
horrifying *Hard Candy* as my favorite female performance. They are
followed by Clare-Hope Ashitey\'s key role in [Children of Men] and then
a tie (2nd runner-up) between Katie Holmes\' thief in *Mad Money* and
Q\'Orianka Kilcher\'s Pocahontas in [The New World]. The best bit-female
performance is Alexandra Silber\'s book lover in *Room 1408* which is
the best thing in the movie even though she appears in just one short
scene.

The best cast is a tie between *interMission* (a bunch of memorable and
eccentric characters) and [No Country for Old Men] (a small solid set of
rural American characters). The runner-ups is a tie between *Friends
With Money* (very honest and fresh performances) and *The Lookout*. The
best characterisations was in [The New World] for the colorful portrayal
of the Native Americans.

characters
==========

The **best villain** is Heath Ledger\'s The Joker in [The Dark Knight],
who is also my most favorite ever. He is followed by Sid Haig\'s
homorous clown in *House of A Thousand Corpses*.

The most desirable gal is Emelia Burns, the black girl in *The
Condemned*. She\'s followed by Cate Blanchett in *Veronica Guerin* and
then Shirley Henderson as the emotionally-hurt girl in *interMission*.

There were no characters as cute the young penguins in *Surf\'s Up*.

My most **favorite creature** is the super-large monster in
[Cloverfield], followed by Pyramid Head in [Silent Hill]. 2nd runner-up
is the hyper-realistic mountain creatures in *The Mummy 3*. The best
**character design** however goes to the villainous Maltazard in *Arthur
& the Invisibles*, followed by the three suits in [Iron Man].

visuals
=======

The year\'s most beautiful imagery can be found in *Surf\'s Up* (the
waves and the hidden beach), with an honorable mention going to *The
Bank Job*, especially its opening scene. *Appleseed* has the year\'s
best visuals.

others:

[these] and these:

10,000 BC; 2 Fast 2 Furious; 3:10 To Yuma; 50 First Dates; Akeelah and
the Bee; Animal Farm; Apollo 13; Around the Bend; Assassination of Jesse
James by the Coward Robert Ford, The; Babe; Babe: Pig in the City; Bad
Education; Batman vs. Dracula, The; Big Fat Liar; Black Dahlia; Black
Mask; Blast From the Past; The Brave One; Cleaner, The; Closer; Crimson
Rivers; Descent, The; Dirty Deeds; Dukes of Hazzard; Dead Presidents;
Drop Dead Sexy; Edison; Evan Almighty; Event Horizon; Fan, The; Fast &
the Furious, The: Tokyo Drift; Funny Money; Good German, The; Good
Sheperd, The; Great Debaters, The; Grosse Pointe Blank; Happy Feet;
Hellboy 2; Highlander - The Search for Vengeance; Hit Man; Hitch;
Hitcher, The; Horton Hears A Who; Hostel 2; House of Sand & Fog; Human
Stain, The; In Good Company; Jerusalema; Jumper; Kaena: The Prophecy;
Kika; Kingdom of Heaven; Lords of Dogtown; Love & Basketball; Machinist,
The; Magnificent Seven, The; Mirrors; Morvern Callar; National Treasure;
Norbit; One Last Thing; One Missed Call; Open Season; Prestige, The;
Pulse; Possession; Queen, The; Resident Evil: Extinction; Rambo 4;
Runaway Jury; Running Scared; Rush Hour 3; Save the Last Dance; Saw IV;
Secretary; Sentinel, The; Simpsons Movie, The; Someone Like You; Speed;
Street Kings; Swordsman; Talk To Me; Texas Chainsaw Massacre: The
Beginning; Things We Lost in the Fire; Three Colours Red; Three Colours
White; Torque; Trapped; Truth About Love, The; Unfaithful; War; We Are
Marshall; Weather Man; Zoom

  [Cloverfield]: http://movies.tshepang.net/cloverfield-2008
  [Taken]: http://movies.tshepang.net/taken-2008
  [The Lake House]: http://movies.tshepang.net/recent-movies-2008-02-25
  [Children of Men]: http://movies.tshepang.net/children-of-men-2006
  [No Country for Old Men]: http://movies.tshepang.net/no-country-for-old-men-2007
  [Hairspray]: http://movies.tshepang.net/recent-movies-2008-05-19
  [Kinsey]: http://movies.tshepang.net/kinsey-2004
  [Persona]: http://movies.tshepang.net/persona-1966
  [The Squid & the Whale]: http://movies.tshepang.net/recent-movies-2008-11-06
  [30 Days of Night]: http://movies.tshepang.net/recent-movies-2008-02-01
  [The New World]: http://movies.tshepang.net/the-new-world-2005
  [Step Up 2: The Streets]: http://movies.tshepang.net/recent-movies-2008-12-15
  [Shooter]: http://movies.tshepang.net/shooter-2007
  [Vacancy]: http://movies.tshepang.net/recent-movies-2008-06-26
  [Final Fantasy VII - Advent Children]: http://movies.tshepang.net/final-fantasy-vii-advent-children-2005
  [Kung Fu Panda]: http://movies.tshepang.net/kung-fu-panda-2008
  [The Forbidden Kingdom]: http://movies.tshepang.net/recent-movies-2008-10-12
  [The Dark Knight]: http://movies.tshepang.net/the-dark-knight-2008
  [Planet Terror]: http://movies.tshepang.net/planet-terror-2007
  [Confidence]: http://movies.tshepang.net/confidence-2002
  [Silent Hill]: http://movies.tshepang.net/silent-hill-2006
  [Iron Man]: http://movies.tshepang.net/iron-man
  [these]: http://movies.tshepang.net/tag/2008-movie
