+++
title = "2009 movie review"

[taxonomies]
tags = ['year-movie-review']
+++

The year started with a whole lot of stellar performers but slowed down
later on since I did things other than watch movies. Regardless, that
early period represented some of the best movie years in recent memory.

movie of the year
=================

The super-fresh [District 9] takes the title, and is also the best movie
to ever come out of South Africa.

best movie
==========

The year\'s best movie is [Baise-moi], whose unflinching and unsettling
violence has the raw intensity of [Bamboozled]\'s climax and the
harshness of *Natural Born Killers*, without the humor. It\'s runner-up
is [District 9], followed by [Inglourious Basterds], Tarantino\'s best
movie yet.

performances
============

My favorite performances are a tie and all go to one movie, [Watchmen]
+++ Jeffrey Dean Morgan as The Comedian and Jackie Earle Haley when face
is unmasked. Runner-up is [Raffaëla Anderson] as a crazed rape victim in
[Baise-moi].

There was quite a number of superb male performances, the best being
Daniel-Day Lewis\' near-flawless performances as oil miner in [There
Will Be Blood]. Here\'s the runner-ups:

1.  Christoph Waltz as Nazi officer in [Inglourious Basterds]
2.  John Malkovich as activist in [Changeling]
3.  Jack Nicholson as grumpy tycoon in *Bucket List*
4.  Woody Harrelson as blind man in [Seven Pounds]

The year\'s **best female performance** is a tie between that Rosario
Dawson\'s as the love interest in [Seven Pounds], and Tilda Swinton\'s
as fleeting lover in [The Curious Case of Benjamin Button].

characters
==========

Compared to last year, this year is lacklustre, except for desirable
gals where Golshifteh Farahani ([Body of Lies][Seven Pounds]) and husky
voice (likely Brenda Vaccaro) in [Midnight Cowboy] take the crown. 1st
runner-up is leading lady, Zhao Tao, in [Still Life] followed by (cheat)
the warrior girl in [Avatar], who/which also happens to be year\'s
**best creature**.

Character design goes to the talking toys of [Small Soldiers].

visuals
++++++-

[2012] has some seriously explosive visual effects, among the best ever.
The runner-ups:

1.  [Transformers 2]
2.  [Avatar]
3.  [District 9]

The best visual effects artefact is the robo-bikes in [Terminator
Salvation], which ties with the exo-suit in [District 9].

misc elements
++++++++++++-

[There Will Be Blood] has the year\'s **best direction**. [Changeling]
has **best production design**, and its runner-up is [Shoot \'Em Up],
which however gets **best cinematography**. [Changeling] also has **best
costume design** and **best cast**.

The year\'s greatest spectacles are *2012* and [Avatar]; best thriller
is [Law-Abiding Citizen]; most original movie, or one that feels so, is
[District 9]; best comedy is [You Don\'t Mess With the Zohan]; the most
enchanting/delightful is [Wall-E][You Don\'t Mess With the Zohan],
followed up by [Sponge Bob].

The year\'s **best action** movie is [Quantum of Solace], followed by
[Avatar]; the most bizarre is [Ghost Dog], followed by [Watchmen]; the
**funniest** is *You Don\'t Mess With the Zohan*, followed by *Yes Man*,
then [Monsters vs. Aliens][Still Life].

The **most touching** movie (overall) is [Yellow Earth], a sad
exploration of a hopeless yearning for freedom, which presents itself in
a form of Communist soldier with a weird mission. The **most touching
moments** is the relationship between the Chinese and Russian lady in
[The World], followed by a childish romance between silly tent
constructor and sweet servant in *Monsoon Wedding*.

The **best opening credits sequence** is in [Rock \'n Rolla][Shoot \'Em
Up]. The **worst humiliation** is in near the end of [There Will Be
Blood].

others:
++++++-

[these] and these:

Angels & Demons; Awake; Babylon A.D.; Bee Movie; Day the Earth Stood
Still, The; Duplicity; Eagle Eye; Fan Boys; Frailty; Gran Torino;
Happening, The; Ice Age; In the Realm of the Senses; International, The;
Karol - A Man Who Became Pope; Leatherheads; Marie Antoinette; Max &
Mona; Nashville; Notorious; Obsessed; Once Upon A Time in America; Once
Upon A Time In The West; Orphanage, The; Pride; Promise, The; Psycho;
Push; Ran; Saw V; Speed Racer; Sponge Bob; Star Trek; Star Wars: The
Clone Wars; Still Life; Superhero Movie; Taste of Cherry; Tie Me Up, Tie
Me Down; Traitor; Valkyrie; Wind Will Carry Us, The; Wrestler, The; Xiao
Wu; Zack & Miri Make A Porno

  [District 9]: http://movies.tshepang.net/district-9-2009
  [Baise-moi]: http://movies.tshepang.net/baise-moi-2000
  [Bamboozled]: http://movies.tshepang.net/bamboozled-2000
  [Inglourious Basterds]: http://movies.tshepang.net/inglourious-basterds-2009
  [Watchmen]: http://movies.tshepang.net/watchmen-2009
  [Raffaëla Anderson]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Raffa%C3%ABla_Anderson
  [There Will Be Blood]: http://movies.tshepang.net/there-will-be-blood-2007
  [Changeling]: http://movies.tshepang.net/changeling-2008
  [Seven Pounds]: http://movies.tshepang.net/recent-movies-2009-04-14
  [The Curious Case of Benjamin Button]: http://movies.tshepang.net/finchers-most-pointless-yet
  [Midnight Cowboy]: http://movies.tshepang.net/recent-movies-2009-07-13
  [Still Life]: http://movies.tshepang.net/recent-movies-2009-09-30
  [Avatar]: http://movies.tshepang.net/avatar-2009
  [Small Soldiers]: http://movies.tshepang.net/small-soldiers-1998
  [2012]: http://movies.tshepang.net/2012-2009
  [Transformers 2]: http://movies.tshepang.net/transformers-revenge-of-the-fallen-2009
  [Terminator Salvation]: http://movies.tshepang.net/terminator-salvation-2009
  [Shoot \'Em Up]: http://movies.tshepang.net/recent-movies-2009-03-06
  [Law-Abiding Citizen]: http://movies.tshepang.net/law-abiding-citizen-2009
  [You Don\'t Mess With the Zohan]: http://movies.tshepang.net/many-recent-movies-2009-02-27
  [Sponge Bob]: http://movies.tshepang.net/recent-movies-2009-10-23
  [Quantum of Solace]: http://movies.tshepang.net/quantum-of-solace-2008
  [Ghost Dog]: http://movies.tshepang.net/ghost-dog
  [Yellow Earth]: http://movies.tshepang.net/yellow-earth-1984
  [The World]: http://movies.tshepang.net/more-of-jia
  [these]: http://movies.tshepang.net/tag/2009-movie/
