many many recent movies
=======================

:date: 2010-12-31



*A break from work meant that much of the previous few weeks were spent
glued to my laptop screen, enjoying the wonderful art world of movies.
Another inspiration is preparation for the upcoming 2010 movie review.*

Jack Nicholson's The Joker (*Batman*) has been given much praise, and on
revisiting, I'm left wondering what the fuck they were drinking/smoking.
Sure, this version of the character was meant to be humorous, but it's
hard to ignore how far he pales in comparison to the Heath Ledger's more
recent portrayal.

I was gladly surprised by how enjoyable *Superman* is. It's generally a
piece of shit (bad and childish dialogue, campy direction, shitty
character development, bad script) but I fell in love with Lois, the
love interest of Superman. She's is so god-damn sexually suggestive
(highlight is the interview scene). The comic sidekick of Lex Luther
(archvillain) is also fun to watch, sometimes. The guy playing Superman
in his teens is pretty good too, making for a better actor the
fully-grown Superman. And the time-reversal moment is ludicrous. WTF! As
a sidenote, it was interesting to find that `the movie's director got
someone to re-write the script due to it being too campy`_.

*Superman II* had some (very) unbearably stupid moments, but it was fun
watching the evil trio exploring the world, especially the inquisitive
woman, and the power-hungry general. The whole was even campier than the
first movie, and the script is pure trash, more of a curiosity than
something to be taken seriusly.

I really love the editing of *The Kite Runner*, and how smooth the
camera switches from one view/scene to another. The movie itself is an
excellent epic, full of profound/touching/painful moments. The point of
it all, however, escapes me. Sure it exposes the darkness that is
oppression (sexual, economic, military, racial), while also portraying
moments of heroism, but the main idea was lost to me. One other thing
is, if one accepts the movie as some form of (very mild) fantasy, it
makes a few of the movie's moments easier to swallow (e.g. the servant
boy is rather too courageous, and his admirable character is stuff of
fairy tales).

The free-spirited, laid-back parents of the lead character of *Easy A*
are given superb performances by Stanley Tucci and Patricia Clarkson.
Lisa Kudrow also lends a notable performance, playing a troubled
guidance teacher. The movie itself is quite well-made, especially
considering that it's a teen romantic comedy. The end is unfortunately
shitty, as is usual of the genre.

I found a revisit of *Inception* terribly disturbing, a fact not helped
by excessive violence and intense emotion (the wife thing). The main
concept is very attrative, and the idea of shifting gravity was
well-executed (see the battle on the hallway). The conman is given a
wonderful performance.

*Halo Legends* is a collection of animated short films set in the Halo
universe (equivalent of The Animatrix). I was not going to mention it
here, until I got massively impressed by the superb action direction on
it's last short, *The Package*. It's intense and well-animated, and what
makes it even nicer is that all participants are the heroic,
hyper-powered Spartans. Rocks! As a sidenote, I spent an untold number
of hours playing and loving the game series, most especially `the first
one`_... among the most significant of gaming experiences in my life.

*Life is Beautiful* helped me shed a few tears, due to the touching
efforts of a man creating a make-believe world for his son, with whom
he's imprisoned in a Nazi concentration camp. It's a beautiful fantasy,
and is driven very well by Roberto Benigni (both the movie's director
and the father character), as well as the boy playing the son.

*Human Nature* has moments which make me wanna call it a masterpiece,
but it loses steam along the way. Patricia Arquette makes me wanna fuck
a hairy woman, and the ape boy is given a very entertaining performance.

Another movie that runs out of steam, though rather too soon, and also
becomes unbearably dull and lame is *Shane* (1953), which I watched only
because I once read the novel it's based on some time ago. It's too rare
to have movies this old satisfying. Luckily, the beginning was warm and
charming.

*Centurion* has excellent battle direction, but screwed up by plot holes
and under-developed female leads (the unconvincing tracker and the
too-convenient caretaking love interest).

Gritty, decent action is offset by some real bad casting in the stale
*Takers*. Far superior, and one of the best movies I've seen this year
is *Brookly's Finest*, an edgy thriller that more than makes up for it's
lack of originality with superb execution and nice acting. The ending
would be even better if the fates of the three lead characters were
treated consistently. It seems to me that someone fucked with the
original story. One favorite moment of mine is the brief but powerful
relationship between our suicidal cop and the (god-damn-gorgeous)
prostitute. Nearly made me drop a tear. This cop's my hero for treating
her like that... his queen.

*Pistol Opera* was rather too experimental for my liking. It's
excessively unconventional style was rather unbearable, and is barely
helped by the attractive storyline of pretty assassin who kills without
flinching.

It's amazing how little (none) chemistry exists between the 4 lead
characters of *A-Team*. Liam Neeson and the agent lady are badly
miscast; the guy plating B-A lacks the charisma that Mr T. had in the TV
series, even if he's a better actor.

"...phew!"

.. _the movie's director got someone to re-write the script due to it being too campy: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Superman_(film)
.. _the first one: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Halo:_Combat_Evolved
