many recent movies 2008-09-25
=============================

:date: 2008-09-25



Like *Morvern Callar* and *`The War Zone`_*, *The Machinist* got nearly
nothing going on as regards plot (the meditative sort that never aids
the movie to be a blockbuster) as well as skillful direction and acting;
The two relationships formed by our lead in *The Machinist* are really
touching, and our lead, Christopher Bale, deserves great respect for
losing all that weight for the role.

I remember Katie Holmes being the worst thing in *Batman Begins*, but I
got pleasantly surprised by her enjoyable performance in *Mad Money*, a
very enjoyable and light-hearted comedy, with a good story.

I did not expect much from Chris Rock's *I Think I Love My Wife* but got
surprised since it truly is fun with a real decent cast and the
best-of-career performance by the Kerry Washington's slutty, yet beloved
character. Sadly, there's the usual formula, the movie seems real
pointless, and the ending exposes a hole (or two).

*Pulse* got David Fincher's atmospherics but lacks his near-perfect
execution. I liked the counterfeiter's portrayal.

Cuba Gooding, jnr gives a very good performance in *Dirty* when playing
a careless and near-corrupt police officer, and a performance similar to
his other excellent turn as an intoxicated club owner in *American
Gangster*. Nearly everyone else turns quite impressive, and that does
not include the movie's lead character.

*The Mummy 3* is easily the worst of the series despite me having vague
memories of those other forgettable movies. Anything that's ancient
China truly excites me and we here see wasted opportunities, and the
movie is treated like children's stuff. Two things however deserve
acknowledgement - the hyper-realistic mountain creatures and the
end-credits sequence (obviously inspired and superior to *300*'s). I
like the scar-faced lady too, all angry, unflinching, and gorgeous, but
is wasted too. And I don't recall Jet Li being so evil since *Lethal
Weapon 4*, and he don't fit too well. It's a bad movie.

*Arthur & the Invisibles* is a silly, childish story that does not do
justice to some nice and powerful concepts (the villain - who got quite
a presence and is a display of genius character design - is the movie's
most interesting thing but is only hinted at; the legend of the 7
kingdoms is also merely mentioned and left largely unexplained).

A revisit of *Braveheart* left me less than impressed, which is
unfortunate considering that this was my personal best for a number of
years, until it was of course toppled by the still-unbeaten *Fight
Club*.

.. _The War Zone: http://tshepang.net/the-war-zone-1999
