recent movies 2009-09-23
========================

:date: 2009-09-23



Although nobody cares to explain why the obsessed is obsessed in
Obsessed, we get quite a treat with a seriously-gorgeous,
not-too-incompetent Beyonce and a perfect gentleman of a husband as well
a decent cast and direction. Someone worked real hard to get that guy as
perfect as it gets by the way, and in way I don't remember in movie
history.

I figured the popularity of Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho was way overblown
after watching it for the first time, but there's one superb scene where
the private detective (a real good performance) questions the suspect,
whose tense emotions are well-enhanced by the camera angle (which would
be a bit of a spoiler for one who hasn't seen it). Rest of the stuff is
just banal and the end-scene (the explanation), though well-acted,
doesn't help.

You can imagine what I thought All That Jazz was about especially since
I had no idea what the story was, and yeah it's not about jazz at all.
It's luckily sprinkled here and there with good dance sequences, but
since it was done in the US 80's (okay, that's 1979, but it's close
enough), there's bad costumes, hair styles, and music all over the
place, and is nearly unbearable with its eccentricity and the depressing
ailment moments. The music-infused delusions the protagonist goes
through don't help either, regardless of how innovative the whole
treatise may be. Highlights: the sex dance sequence, and the daughter &
lover sequence, and even some decent comic touches, EG some of the
hospital scenes.
