recent movies 2007-07-20
========================

:date: 2007-07-20



I was surprised to find Leonardo DiCaprio and Matt Damon bearable in
their respective roles in the well-made *The Departed*.

I was disappointed that nothing impressive came out of *Shrek 3* (most
disgusting, besides the unbearable and uninspired script, is the poor
technical achievement whereby the characters don't give no impression of
weight when actually walking). I never really liked the first
installment, and recognized the second as superior, partly due to the
colorful new characters, notably the lovely and yet evil magician lady
(mother of Prince Charming) and the cookie guy, among others. This third
is the worst, and Fionna is unbearably boring, as always when she's her
green self.

*Die Hard 4.0* seems among the biggest of all action movies ever,
rivalling Die Hard With A Vengeance (perhaps the ultimate of action
movies), Bad Boys 2, and True Lies. It's interesting though that among
all the supreme set-pieces, notably the mosquito-plane attack and the
cracker elimination battle (which in the movie is unfortunately referred
to as hacker), the movie remains underwhelming. And Bruce Willis isn't
aging too well either, losing the charms which were glowing in the
series' first and third installments (because the second sucked like
hell, or worse!).

I wonder what fuss was up with *Borat*, even though I enjoyed the dinner
scene (which was too short), and a few other moments.

I loved the story concept of *Deja Vu* and it's the best coverage of
time-travel I've ever seen on film. It's also nice that Denzel
Washington isn't a misfit he was in another Tony Scott movie, *Man of
Fire* (which is superior due to its more attractive story, that of the
cruel business of kidnapping, and the scary environment of Latin
America).

Shall I lose hope in the 007 franchise especially with *Casino Royale*,
the latest, among the least interesting in the 20+ entrant series. At
least it got nice, laid-back and black and white opening and not-so-bad
opening credits sequence.
