recent movies 2008-05-28
========================

:date: 2008-05-28



[in ascending order of excellence]

Me being a big sucker for martial arts shows, especially when it gets as
exotic as having 2 near-invincible monks strutting their stuff in
ancient China, what can I do but marvel? Jackie Chan manages to remain
interesting (unlike in his other disgusting efforts) while Jet Li is
about as cool as ever, although the movie tends to be too childish and
playful, which spoils it all. The biggest fuck-up however is the
appearance of the American teenager, the same-old fuck-up that is so
common, where you only wanna see Orientals, 'cuz Caucasians just don't
fit in this sort of environment, making it feel cheap/fake; and despite
that this teenager don't have no previous experience, he still manages
to stand his own against supposedly-professional soldiers; I haven't
mentioned the lack of acting skill. I have here been talking of the
long-awaited Jet Li/Jackie Chan collaboration named The Forbidden
Kingdom. [`update`_]

*Hard Candy* is intense with an edgy feel to it, and features 2
highly-dedicated performances, a well-written dialogue, and got the
earliest ever twist of any movie I've seen.

Children of Men got a really catchy title, but I avoided it due to
Owen's lead since he ain't my most favorite of actors, and it's painful
what I would have lost. It features among the best battle scenes I've
seen, even amazing that this ain't no war movie; it's a sci-fi drama set
in a nightmarish future (perhaps the most nightmarish I ever saw
portrayed) and remaining engaging and believable all the time (bar the
heroism by the lead on an undying quest to help a mother and daughter).
The cause of the hellish condition of the world isn't really explained
(unless I missed it), but that adds to the movie's edginess and plays
nice on the viewers' curiosity. All performances are decent, the most
interesting of which is that of the mother, and the freedom
fighters/terrorists are wonderfully-done, while the superbly-done action
rocks hard too.

.. _update: http://tshepang.net/recent-movies-2008-10-12
