+++
date = 2009-07-13
title = "recent movies 2009-07-13"
+++

In *Midnight Cowboy*, Dustin Hoffman plays a character so broken that he
depresses all the time, and better off dead. John Voigt plays the only
friend he could ever have, and is even dumber. Luckily we find a ray of
light in the husky-voiced gal who does rock proper\... and I wonder what
the main point of the movie is.

One could easily get fooled into thinking Sergio Leone\'s *Once Upon A
Time in America* is good, judging by the beautiful opening sequence, but
it ends up a pompous and disorganised mess. There\'s a few good
performances here and there and Robert De Niro, whose cruel and
underdeveloped character, doesn\'t provide anything above the usual.
*Once Upon A Time in the West*, by the same director, is far better and
full of rather interesting characters (but is no match of his *The Good,
The Bad, and the Ugly*).

Akira Kirosawa\'s *Ran* is the worst of his works I\'ve seen so far (and
even worse than *Once Upon A Time in America*), and is not helped by its
preposterous acting especially by that of the conqueror whose retirement
is less than comfortable. Of some note is his close aide, the mocking
entertainer whose utterances are often of good wisdom. One that caught
my attention is \"Enduring ridicule, I seek to entertain\".

Antonio Banderas has a good turn as a simple, yet ambitious, thug in the
eccentric *Tie Me Up, Tie Me Down*, where he got his way of achieving
his dream. Victoria Abril is a pleasure to watch (as usual) playing an
equally broken character, though maybe a bit worse since she also
doesn\'t know what she wants.
