recent movies 2007-11-05
========================

:date: 2007-11-05



*Three Colours Blue* showcases wonderful cinematography (among the
highlights, check the texture, lighting, and color on the lead
character's bruised face in an early scene while in hospital, a work of
tremendous beauty, with subtle colors, without resorting to overkill
fantasy-like eye-candy seen in *Am√©lie*, another superb cinematography
showpiece; I also don't have in memory such wonderful use focusing which
is also gentle) as well as excellent direction and acting; The second
encounter with dead man's mistress brought tear to eye, the moment where
she states the widow's nature.

I once considered *Magnolia* a masterpiece due to the fresh and original
storyline and the decent acting but the impact couldn't last additional
revisits and that makes it the worst movie mentioned in this post. It
happens to be merely tedious with sub-standard dialogue and pretensions
of greatness.

I cannot decide which is superior between *Scarface* and *Underground*.
The characters of the latter however are richer, while those of the
former are quite formulaic and not believable (wife, sister, mother) who
seem meant to seem essential, a matter of conformance. *Scarface*
however has a more powerful storyline (exciting rise-and-fall story of a
crime lord) while *Underground*, a dark comedy full of implausible
events, is totally eccentric, made interesting by its varied characters,
especially the romantic interest and the evil liar who later becomes an
esteemed politician. It's interesting that the I found *Underground* too
eccentric, and therefore irritating, but only after the first time
watching it.

The most enjoyable movie of this post is *Ray*, due to its wonderful
music, interesting storyline and its lively editing. The character of
the lead is real fun to watch and skillfully portrayed too.

--------------

In *Scarface* is what must have been an inspiration of the two dirty
cops in `Payback`_; the dirty cop here wants a piece of action in
return for not arresting Al Pacino's character same as those in *Payback*.
Hilarious stuff actually.

.. _Payback: http://tshepang.net/payback-1999
