recent movies 2010-10-25
========================

:date: 2010-10-25



In *Date Night*, Mark Wahlberg plays the koolest guy in movies so far
this year; he's hot, he got the sexiest gal imaginable who 'speaks
little English', he's got the koolest IT toys, and a number of not-cheap
sports cars. Okay, he's not quite as rich as Tony Stark (*Iron Man 2*),
but he wins regardless, especially because that Tony Stark (and that
movie) was far less interesting compared to `the first time`_ I saw it
(Samuel L. Jackson sux, but not as bad as Don Cheadle).

I haven't watched *Reservoir Dogs* in many years and a revisit wasn't a
let-down at all. Superb direction, excellent acting, exciting characters
(all of them, especially big boss, his son, and Harvey Keitel). The
opening scene is top-class and so is the dialogue throughout. The movie
is amazingly meaningless too.

Amazing how *Dog Day Afternoon* will test your patience; the one guy
whose portrayal I enjoyed more than Al Pacino's is the hostage
negotiator. I like his great concern for the kidnapped. Very impressive
performance. Oh, did anyone note the great resemblance between the lead
FBI guy and George Bush, jnr.?

One bright spark in the (extremely) awful *The Expendables* is the
desirable gal's artwork (and her too of course).

Not only is it's blatant religiosity disgusting, not to mention an
unsatisfactory lead performance, but *The Book of Eli* is also like a
cheap imitation of an *I Am Legend*.

The one thing I heard about the legend of *Robin Hood* is that he stole
from the rich in the interests of the poor, and the movie turns out to
be a Braveheart imitation instead, complete with romance and
kingdom-wide heroism, and hardly any theft by this hero. Although it's
pretty good, it's standard fare, and dull too, and nothing in it
justifies its existence at all. There's nothing new and movie makers
know it. WTF! Other than for financial gain, why the fuck did they make
it?

.. _the first time: http://tshepang.net/recent-movies-2010-05-06
