recent movies 2008-10-12
========================

:date: 2008-10-12



It's strange that Spike Lee covered 2 issues, cheating and racism, in a
single movie, and none reduced to a subplot. What's also strange is that
there's little to celebrate in this tired and ageing Jungle Fever (given
Lee's amazing credentials), although the scene where the protagonist
resigns is commendable. Another strange thing is it was the first time I
saw this piece of shit, old and popular as it is. I also don't like the
fact that someone(s) claimed that TransAmerica is excellent. Sure we
don't get too much movie coverage of transgender issues, but I hate it
when artistic prowess is ignored in favour of politics when judging
excellence. By the way I became surprised that the protagonist was
played by a woman.

It always is a pleasure watching the lead villain of the Saw movie
series, which really pushes the boundaries as regards
unbearably-explicit gore, but most importantly, a rather fresh and
powerful premise (having individuals choose between separate ghastly
ends, one of which leads to survival). I even feel that he outdoes
himself here in the fourth installment, which unfortunately feels
hurried while also employing excessive use of editing to enhance certain
scenes.

The supporting cast of Room 1408 did quite a commendable job, most
notably Alexandra Silber's turn as a fan of one of the author's work.
Even Samuel L. Jackson isn't annoying as usual, but I wish the movie's
premise could have been explained better.

Hellboy 2 is far better than its predecessor and offers the sort of
creature extravaganza last seen in the Star Wars series. The central
concept found within is similar to that of The Mummy 3 (awakening an
ancient and near-indestructible army) and I wonder if the writers were
aware, and luckily the material received better treament in Hellboy 2.
And it's also amazing that you can get such amazing martial arts
choreography in Yuen Woo Ping's absence. Oh, and I couldn't stop
noticing that the walking fish is modeled after that talkative robot in
Star Wars. It's also obvious that some (at least one) of the creature
designs were inspired by Pan's Labyrinth's childkiller, and much of the
designs look childish and unconvincing.

R. Lee Ermey doesn't miss a step in the bad and unnecessary horror
flick, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre: The Beginning. And The Forbidden
Kingdom needs to be hidden away from the eyes of all, even though I
`enjoyed it more previously`_.

.. _enjoyed it more previously: http://tshepang.net/recent-movies-2008-05-28
