recent movies 2010-11-19
========================

:date: 2010-11-19



There are 2 main stories in *Sophie's Choice*, one a fun-filled/stormy
relationship between 3 people, and the other, a horrid tale of the title
character's experiences in a Nazi concentration camp. Both are
well-made, and Kevin Kline's performance is amazing, and Meryl Streep's,
even better. Did I mention that the Nazi section is a great contender
for the best ever portrayal of that part of human history It's intense
as hell, and Meryl Streep is so fuckin' amazing as the victim.

*The Job* is superly-made but falls apart beyond halfway through, as if
the writer didn't know where to run with the script. The lead character
is quite admirable, the romance wonderful, and the performance of the
immensely ugly Ron Perlman very memorable, as the guy from out-of-town.

I didn't think much of *Invictus*, and watching it was just a matter of
curiosity, so I was quite surprised by its quality, and by the time the
final credits sequence rolled, I thought "No wonder the movie is so
good! The director is Clint Eastwood for God's sake!". More important
than that is a look at Mandela's character, it was fresh insight, and
Morgan Freeman does do a good job. How accurate all this is another
issue though, but this is one of the best movies based in South Africa.
It's production design reminds me of a *Cry Freedom* (about another key
South African politician), as if it's some sort of tradition.

*Malcolm X*, which I considered a masterpiece for years (after a mere
one viewing), was far less impressive on a revisit. It's not boring, but
there's hardly much going for it, and none of the performances are any
good (they are below average, all but Denzel Washington; Angela Basset
is desirable but also cardboard), the camerawork and production design
not ok, the story standard, and the whole thing overlong. It's remains
an interesting exploration of the kind of shit people tend to be so
ready to believe (and die for).
