The Warrior's Way (2010)
========================

:date: 2011-12-07
:tags: 2011-movie, decent



There is extreme brutality and violence, in this super-exciting fusion
of guns and swords. It's rare to successfully mix Oriental and Western
fantasy. I don't remember live-action fantasy martial arts so
impressively-executed (the ones that come close are *Kung Fu Hustle* and
*House Of Flying Daggers*). The costume design is amazing, for both West
and East. The final battle is exhilarating. Shit, I wish I had words to
describe it. Did you check the ninjas? The sound?

The movie's best performance was the head of the ninjas, while Geoffrey
Rush's was just business as usual (nothing challenging for him here, nor
was it required). The gal is okay, and not as annoying as she could have
been.

The minor complaints I have is the unimpressive cowboy villain, and the
not-lethal-enough look of the lead (where's Jet Li when you need him?).
I would also have preffered a less polished feel of the camerawork (it
feels too sanitised, too fantasy-like).

--------------

**sidenotes**:

-  I was again wondering if there was something wrong with considering
   the generally negative critical reception of the movie. Maybe they
   are the ones who have problems. Were we watching the same movie?
   Perhaps I will understand on a revisit.

-  I read `a quality review`_ that does a good job of justifying its
   negative conclusion.

-  I am worried that this is another `Case of The Matrix Reloaded`_.

--------------

**update**:

This is indeed another `Case of The Matrix Reloaded`_. It is far less
impressive than on first viewing, but I still love the fantasy-like
fight sequences of the ninjas, but most especially, their
characterisation (they look as menacing as fuck). The part of the story
where the lead character gets to meet a gal and exercise a more relaxed
life is boring and not too well done. It reminds me of a similar kinda
thing in *Fearless*, where Jet Li's character goes to chill in a farm.
As if that's not enough, both the lead character and the Amercian
villain are unconvincing, while the movie's best performance is that of
the guy playing head of the ninjas.

.. _a quality review: http://www.screendaily.com/reviews/the-warriors-way/5021277.article
.. _Case of The Matrix Reloaded: http://tshepang.net/the-case-of-the-matrix-reloaded
