Transformers (2007)
===================

:date: 2008-01-15
:tags: 2007-movie, substandard



first review (2007)
-------------------

After watching this spectacle, the greatest so far this year, I kept
wondering which has superior visual effects if compared to `Pirates of
the Caribbean 3`_. It wins in terms of spectacle due to the far larger
activity going on all over the screen and it's really unbelieavable how
seemingly no cash was spared, and it's only since King Kong (2005) have
I been so overwhelmed by sheer size. Interestingly, I can't single out a
favorite effect because they are all over the place (the scorpion
battle, the city battle, the transformers).

The lead performer is quite impressive and so is the mother, who
provides among the movie's finest comic moments.

Luckily the movie isn't pretentious (say the ridiculous `Spiderman 3`_)
about its seriousness and is therefore presented as mere crowd-pleaser,
and what a crowd-pleaser it is! This fact allows one to enjoy it pretty
well, disregarding plot-holes and other deficiencies.

second review (2008)
--------------------

This revisit turned into a frustrating exercise since I noted too many
compositing errors, unimpressive production design (especially for such
an expensive movie), worse cinematography (unbearable and overdone
lighting), and cardboard characters, none being believable, not to
mention really bad casting choices (Anthony Anderson playing the best
computer cracker; the entire heroic soldier crew).

The transformations are overwhelming (as if that's supposed to be an
advantage) and there's way more action than necessary such that I can't
keep up, and none of which is believable (EG we get our nerdy hero
getting serious physical pounding without getting hurt, or acting all
calm while a multi-ton machine falls very close-by).

Anyways, the entire concept is god-damn silly, but then *The Matrix*
managed to get away with its own silly concept (machines 'farming' human
energy; WTF) by being better elsewhere.

.. _Pirates of the Caribbean 3: http://tshepang.net/pirates-of-the-caribbean-3
.. _Spiderman 3: http://tshepang.net/spider-man-3-2007
