---
date: '2013-05-28'
tags: 'developer-of-note, Python'
title: 'developer of note: Nick Coghlan'
---

This is easily among the most active of all core CPython developers. His
productivity is ridiculous, and I seriously wonder how he manages to do
all he does, especially since [he does it in his free time]. He also
tends to be quite stern, which is extra kool since he does it while
displaying [great depth of knowledge] and [maturity]. Also, his great
work has been [officially recognized by the Python Software Foundation].

The first work that prompted this recognition as [developer of note] is
the proposal, [PEP 413]. The idea is that the Python standard library
(stdlib) should release at a quicker rate than the Python language
itself. This is a nice balance between two camps: those favoring
*stability* over quicker availability of features, and those favoring
the opposite. The PEP (Python Enhancement Proposal) is quite thorough,
and is partly in opposition to the earlier [PEP 407], which proposes
that all of CPython (the language and its stdlib) should release faster.
Nick Coghlan outlines the disadvantages with that approach in PEP 413 as
well.

Another PEP he is working on is [PEP 432]. Titled *Simplifying the
CPython startup sequence*, it\'s a highly detailed proposal to
re-organise some of CPython code to ease maintenance. His deep knowledge
on the project\'s internals is also on display.

Nick also builds and maintains a collection of notes known simply as
[Nick Coghlan\'s Python Notes]. There is much wisdom there (complete
with high quality clear writing), favorite of which is the just-updated
[Incremental Plans to Improve Python Packaging], a thorough write-up on
the history, current state, and future plans regarding the story of
packaging (and installation) in the Python ecosystem. He also happens to
be a great champion in pushing for progress on that front.

  [he does it in his free time]: http://mail.python.org/pipermail/python-ideas/2012-February/014139.html
  [great depth of knowledge]: http://mail.python.org/pipermail/python-ideas/2012-February/013835.html
  [maturity]: http://hg.python.org/peps/rev/8a6e3b28dbef
  [officially recognized by the Python Software Foundation]: http://www.python.org/community/awards/psf-awards/#september-2011
  [developer of note]: http://tshepang.net/tags#developer-of-note-ref
  [PEP 413]: http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0413/
  [PEP 407]: http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0407
  [PEP 432]: http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0432
  [Nick Coghlan\'s Python Notes]: http://python-notes.boredomandlaziness.org/en/latest/index.html
  [Incremental Plans to Improve Python Packaging]: http://python-notes.boredomandlaziness.org/en/latest/pep_ideas/core_packaging_api.html#incremental-plans-to-improve-python-packaging
