+++
date = 2014-05-25
title = "2013 movie review"

[taxonomies]
tags = ['year-movie-review']
categories = ['movies']
+++

Not such a great year at the movies, even worse than [last year], though
I think I also watched a lot less movies. Luckily there\'s two excellent
ones, the best being [In Bruges]. It also boasts the year\'s best
**direction**, **cinematography**, and **script/dialog**. The other
excellent movie is [Redbelt].

visuals
=======

[Cleanskin] has the best **action**, while [Man of Steel] has the best
**action sequence**, the first battle with second-in-command of Zod. The
movie also has the best **visual effects**, followed by [Elysium].

performances
============

My **favorite performance** is that of Tom Towles playing Otis in
[Henry: Portrait of a Serial Killer]. Runner-up is the hypnotized lady
in [Now You See Me], followed by [Michael Parks] in [Django Unchained].
The **best male performance** is by [Chiwetel Ejiofor] as an instructor
in [Redbelt], while the **best female performance** is by Charlotte
Rampling in [Cleanskin].

characters
==========

My **favorite character** is the honorable martial arts instructor in
[Redbelt], played by Chiwetel Ejiofor. The most **desirable gal** is the
love interest in [In Bruges].

The best **character design** is the fearsome The Missionary in [Silent
Hill: Revelation], followed by the bizarre floating giants in
[MirrorMask].

miscellaneous
=============

The most **important** movie is [The Thaw] due to its well-delivered
story, which is related to the consequences of global warming. Runner-up
is [Seven Psychopaths] due to its stance on homophobia and interracial
relationships. There is a tie for the most **bizarre** movie: [Cloud
Atlas] and [MirrorMask].

The most **innovative** movie is the satirical [Goodbye Uncle Tom][]:
it\'s shot like a documentary in which the makers travel to a
particularly horrid moment in United States history, yet treating it
with humor\... very daring.

The title for **best \'old\' movie experience** goes to [Payback]. This
a title for a movie I\'ve seen before this year. A special mention
should go to the [Director\'s Cut version], which I saw first time in
2013.

  [last year]: http://movies.tshepang.net/2012-movie-review
  [In Bruges]: http://movies.tshepang.net/in-bruges-2008
  [Redbelt]: http://movies.tshepang.net/redbelt-2007
  [Cleanskin]: http://movies.tshepang.net/cleanskin-2012
  [Man of Steel]: http://movies.tshepang.net/man-of-steel-2013
  [Elysium]: http://movies.tshepang.net/elysium-2013
  [Henry: Portrait of a Serial Killer]: http://movies.tshepang.net/henry-portrait-of-a-serial-killer
  [Now You See Me]: http://movies.tshepang.net/now-you-see-me-2013
  [Michael Parks]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michael_Parks
  [Django Unchained]: http://movies.tshepang.net/django-unchained-2012
  [Chiwetel Ejiofor]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chiwetel_Ejiofor
  [Silent Hill: Revelation]: http://movies.tshepang.net/silent-hill-revelation-2012
  [MirrorMask]: http://movies.tshepang.net/mirrormask-2005
  [The Thaw]: http://movies.tshepang.net/the-thaw-2009
  [Seven Psychopaths]: http://movies.tshepang.net/seven-psychopaths-2012
  [Cloud Atlas]: http://movies.tshepang.net/cloud-atlas-2012
  [Goodbye Uncle Tom]: http://movies.tshepang.net/goodbye-uncle-tom-1971
  [Payback]: http://movies.tshepang.net/payback-1999
  [Director\'s Cut version]: http://movies.tshepang.net/payback-straight-up-2006
