+++
date = 2017-10-22
title = "from offense to delight"

[taxonomies]
tags = ['theatre']
+++

I was invited to a show named *Best Friends, Worst Enemies* which I
described as "so bad it's offensive". And I actually was offended,
which was made worse by an appreciative audience, and they even stood up
at the end of it, offering an ovation. I did not like it because I found
neither the story nor the characters interesting enough to deserve the
stage. I just don't see how people would find any of what was shown
profound or special or new. I complained to 3 people who also watched
the show, and they could not understand what my issues were (how does
one explain to another that a piece of art is not interesting). I also
felt like walking out, and could not wait for the end.

Basic story: 4 wayward friends (sex and drugs) find baby at door step,
and a letter they find proclaims one of them a father, leading them to
do paternity tests, and ending with a dumb twist. There is humor all
over the place, none of which is particularly good. There are also
contrived circumstances and... fuck, there is nothing there!

Anyways, as I complained about the show, someone passively invited me to
another show named *Day of Absence*, which was such a pleasure. Concept
is great (and fresh)... "white face* black performers play roles of
white people in shitty-ass USA where blacks are treated like sub-humans,
in a society so dependent on them that chaos ensues when they
mysteriously disappear. There's lots of good humor, there's decent
dialog, a wonderful performance by the guy playing mayor, and superb use
of breaking the 4th wall, where the director would complain about
mistakes the cast made, asking for re-takes. Another involved lighting
problems, which, I later found out weren't actually part of the show,
yet served it so well.

Show wasn't perfect, and there was even a moment were I felt sleepy. I
also felt the accents could do with a bit of work where,for example, I
could not tell if they were mimicking black or white Americans. I
sometimes also struggled with hearing what the fuck they were saying,
though that could also be a property of those accents. I felt
inconsistencies in those accents as well, as if they actors didn't get
enough practice.

Despite those (rather minor) complaints, the director deserves much
respect for what she created (what's her name?).
