+++
date = 2008-12-27
title = "The Dark Knight (2008)"

[taxonomies]
tags = ['2008-movie', 'decent']
categories = ['movies']
+++

I can\'t really express the excitement the movie induced into me, mainly
due to Heath Ledger\'s The Joker, a great contender for the best ever
villainous character in movie history. This character is the centerpiece
of the whole movie, and actually makes everybody else pretty
uninteresting, including the Dark Knight himself. What makes the
character so interesting is beyond just the acting, but also its unusual
philosophical leanings, personality (no fear for death whatsoever),
genius-level smarts (extremely elaborate and effective plans), all of
which makes the material feel real fresh and making this character
thoroughly developed. The character is also fearsome, funny, and
seriously cunning.

I can\'t say there\'s anything outstanding about the visual effects (the
*Batman* series never impressed in this front) and the chase sequences
don\'t rock so hard (EG the Knight\'s super-sized motorbike could have
done with greater speed to enhance the feeling of adrenaline, but
instead felt like it was slouching around at 60km/h). The single
greatest visual effect however is Two-Face\'s ugly side. Though nothing
groundbreaking, it\'s somewhat a first, combining a live face with some
very realistic effects. An early bank robbery scene is pure fun and much
of the action is so sophisticated and complex that it\'s hard to keep
track of what happens. It\'s the movie\'s best.

It\'s great length (over 150 minutes) allows room for some shit to creep
in (Two-Face shouldn\'t have been afforded a sub-plot) but it\'s so
amazing elsewhere that it\'s easily the best ever comic book adaptation
(replacing *Batman Begins* and *Iron Man*).

By the way, I\'m pretty glad that the Knight\'s romantic interest has
been recast cuz\' the previous actress was the weakest point in the
magnificent *Batman Begins*.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

A second look at *The Dark Knight* wasn\'t favorable, all but:

-   Heath Ledger\'s The Joker, the year\'s performance
-   the bank robbery in an early scene

Not even the action saves the movie, which was mostly wasted cash since
it ain\'t really good. And the last scene really is unbearable. And who
gives a shit about the cheap philosophical blah I so previously
cherished.

So, no, this isn\'t the best ever comic book adaptation.
