+++
date = 2013-12-12
title = "the one I revere most, after losing Madiba"
[taxonomies]
tags = ['politics']
+++

As far as I can remember, there was not a single living individual I
respected more than I did Madiba. That would explain the fact of my
weeping on the morning I heard of his death, which is something I never
did for any single individual. For some time now, I actually asked
myself which of his many deeds lead to such reverence, and I don't
really know. I do strongly suspect though that it's the key role he
played in ending government-sanctioned racism against non-Caucasians in
South Africa. Being a Black citizen of that country, this is something
that affected me personally, and something I will eternally be grateful
for. In addition to that, this man is also not just a hero (being a
freedom fighter), but also a saint (promoting reconciliation with the
oppressors). It's not only that, but also the fact that he is
constantly hailed as an icon of peace.

For a number of times, I would ask myself if there was anyone alive who
garners greater respect, and the only person who came close is [the
current Dalai Lama], but I must admit I don't know much about him,
beyond his winning a Nobel Peace Prize. Another candidate is [Desmond
Tutu], who frequently speaks against injustice, and also happens to be a
winner of that most prestigious of awards.

There is one other candidate, [Noam Chomsky], whose intellect and
activism I deeply respect. Watching and listening to some of his
political work some time in 2012 led me to consider him the most
valuable person alive. His influence is likely smaller than that of the
above-mentioned candidates, but being the world's foremost Anarchist is
quite something, especially given that it's the most attractive of all
political theories I've yet encountered.

So, with a disclaimer that I am largely ignorant of world events, Noam
Chomsky takes the place of Nelson Mandela as **the living individual I
admire the most**.

  [the current Dalai Lama]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/14th_Dalai_Lama
  [Desmond Tutu]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Desmond_Tutu
  [Noam Chomsky]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Noam_chomsky
