fighting for work
=================

:date: 2014-09-09



Here's a story of two siblings, one a 10-year-old girl and the other a
6-year-old boy. They also happen to be my relatives (kids of my
cousin), and are very fond of me.

The 10-year-old was just about to cut my hair, but being impatient, I
asked the younger one to do it, just so there's progress by the time
the older finishes doing whatever she was doing. Little did I know
hell's about to break loose. As the older one asked the younger one to
hand over the machine, he refused, and an argument ensued. None of the
two were relenting, even with my repeated pleading:

* "Please let your brother do the cutting, and you can do the
  finishing touches"

* "Please let your sister do the cutting, and you'll get a chance next
  time"

* "Please share the task"

It was a weird moment, seeing people actually fight for what looks to
me like unrewarding work... a chore. There was even tears from the
brother, who was very hurt, even mentioning how unfair it is, citing
facts like how the sister always gets to cut my hair, and mentioning
other benefits she gets that he doesn't, specifically the fact that I
tend to ride far with her on my bike (I don't have a helmet small
enough for the boy). He even hurled abuse to the sister in anger, "you
are fat", which wasn't taken lightly. Being immature, they each would
have had the work not go on than allow the other to proceed. This went
on for several minutes, and me not wanting to impose on either, asked
their older (15-year-old) sister to intervene. She was rather
effective, even though she sided more with the 10-year-old, citing
experience... "what do you know about cutting hair".

Perhaps I'm pushing it... have you ever seen kids this young cut hair?
But I was thinking Why The Fuck Not!

Anyways, this whole exercise was weird as fuck and so
unbelievable. It's an interesting display of sibling rivalry, and
these two do have constant conflicts. I just didn't think they'd also
fight over who gets to do work. It was also the most impassioned and
long-drawn I remember seeing between them. Luckily it wasn't violent,
even though one tried to forcefully take the machine from the other.
