the one I revere the most, after losing Madiba
==============================================

:date: 2013-12-10
:tags: untagged



For a long time, there was not a single living individual I respected
more than I did Madiba. That would explain the fact of my weeping on
the morning I heard of his death, which is something I never did for
any single individual. For some time now, I actually asked myself
which of his many deeds lead to such reverence, and I don't really
know. I do strongly suspect though that it's the key role he played in
ending government-sanctioned racism against non-Caucasians in South
Africa. Being a Black citizen of that country, this is something that
affected me personally, and something I will eternally be grateful
for. In addition to that, this man is also not just as hero (being a
freedom fighter), but also a saint (promoting reconciliation with the
oppressors). It's not only that, but the fact that the man is
constantly hailed as an icon of peace, not only in South Africa, but
worldwide (or so it seems to me).

A combination of these facts actually made me wonder if there was
anyone alive who received greater respect than this figure, and the
only one that came close was `the current Dalai Lama`__ (though I know
very little about him). Who are the other candidates? There is `Noam
Chomsky`__, whose intellect and activism I deeply respect, and I
actually, after watching and listening to some of his political work,
considered him the most valuable person alive (even while Madiba was
still alive). Who else? Ummmmm... `Desmond Tutu`__ once won a Nobel
Peace Prize and frequently speaks against injustice, and then... fuck,
who else? I must go check out the other winners of that most
prestigious of awards to find some more heroes. For now, I only have
those three candidates, my favorite being Noam Chomsky.

I do hesitate to name Noam Chomsky since I am largely ignorant of
world events, and may be missing someone more significant (bad
memory). Chomsky's influence is likely smaller than the other two
candidates, for example. But being the world's foremost Anarchist is
quite something, especially given that it's the most attractive of all
political theories I've yet encountered.

So, with some reluctance, Noam Chomsky takes the place of Nelson
Mandela as **the living individual I revere the most**. That there's a
multitude of those who may be more deserving of this honor should not
neglect this truth.


__ http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/14th_Dalai_Lama
__ http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Noam_chomsky
__ http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Desmond_Tutu
